README.md, before:

# Prose

[Prose](http://prose.io) is a web-based interface for managing text-based
content in your GitHub repositories. Use it to create, edit, and delete files,
 and save your changes directly to GitHub.

Prose makes quick updates to code or managing a blog. Prose pays special
attention to [Jekyll sites](https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll)
[hosted on GitHub Pages](http://pages.github.com) with Markdown text preview
and syntax reference. It's [configurable](http://prose.io/help/handbook.html)
to restrict users to files that live within the `_posts` directory so you can
use it to manage the content on your blog.

[Get started now.](http://prose.io/help/getting-started.html)

## Installation

To run the current development version, fork this project and serve it locally.
If you have Python handy, just `cd` into the project root directory and run

     python -m SimpleHTTPServer

For guidance on building a packaged version, running tests, and contributing to
development, see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

Commit message:

Updating readme.md with better copy and referring users to the wiki page

README.md, after:

# Prose

[Prose](http://prose.io) is a web-based interface for managing text-based
content in your GitHub repositories. Use it to create, edit, and delete files,
and save your changes directly to GitHub.

It's designed to make it easy to managing a blog hosted on GutHub. It works
great on [sites built using Jekyll](https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll)
that are [hosted on GitHub Pages](http://pages.github.com).

## Using prose for your next project

Prose supports configuration settings with a variety of options making it easy
to adjust the application to support your needs on a project. You can see a
list of
[options on the wiki page](https://github.com/prose/prose/wiki/Configuration).

## Installation

To run the current development version, fork this project and serve it locally.
If you have Python handy, just `cd` into the project root directory and run

     python -m SimpleHTTPServer

For guidance on building a packaged version, running tests, and contributing to
development, see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).
