---
layout: help
title: Handbook
descr: This is a full reference guide explaining all features.
image: http://farm7.staticflickr.com/6119/6884293596_b44a31bf0a_m.jpg
author_twitter: _mql
author: Michael Aufreiter
categories:
- help
published: true
---

This section has not yet been finsished. We're going to cover certain aspects related to using Prose.io.

# Configuration of your site

Configuration is optional, but in many cases you might want to have more control about the behavior of Prose. You can configure it by including a `prose` property in your `_config.yml`.


## Set Root URL

In order to restrict access to a certain directory you can specify a `rooturl` property.

    auto: true
    server: true
    permalink: none
    baseurl: "site_name"
    prose:
      rooturl: "_posts"
      

## Metadata defaults

Metadata defaults can be used to prepopulate metadata of posts based on the directoy they're going to live in. So for the blog on your site you might want to specify `title` and `abstract properties` while on the project listings people should fill in project details such as a project `name` and an `image` that 

    auto: true
    server: true
    prose:
      metadata:
        "_posts/blog":
          title:    "Title of your article"
          abstract: "Abstract"
        "_posts/projects":
          name: "Project Name"
          img:  "Project Thumbnail"
          
          
          
# Troubles?

This is brand new software, and there are some known issues you should be aware of.

## I get an error while saving a post

This happens if you do subsequent saves within a short period of time. The Github API takes a while until it recognizes the latest changes. We're working on overcoming this issue. But until we have a solution, you should just wait ~ 30seconds and hit save again.

