---
layout: about
title: About
descr: You want to run your own instance of Poole? Here's what you need to know.
author_twitter: _mql
author: Michael Aufreiter
---


**Poole** is a web-interface dedicated for managing dynamic content of Jekyll-based websites. Users of Jekyll can create, edit and delete files that live within the _posts directory. Poole can be considered a smart way of publishing for hackers and humans, solving the issue that Jekyll is has not yet been suitable for less-technical content editors.

While developers can still enjoy all freedom the Jekyll framework provides, editors can easily access, edit and publish content using a visual interface.


Separation of Concerns
===============

Ordinary Content Management Systems (Wordpress et. al) are trying to solve many things at once. They allowed users to maintain content, such as articles plus styling them and so on. We believe that concerns should be separated.


Website Development
---------------

Website developers prefer to have full freedom about how to structure their site. They know how to deal with HTML and CSS. And most of them are familiar with template languages. We've found that Jekyll is a perfect foundation for building a website, from a developer point of view. There's nothing we want to add here.


Content Management
---------------

This is where Jekyll has its weaknesses. Content Editors often do not have a technical background, and they don't have to. With Poole, non-technical people can use a visual interface for maintaining the contents of a website (built with Jekyll).


**Content not layout**

Editors should not be concerned with styling tasks. They should be able to focus on structured, content-oriented writing. That's why we removed all styling capabilities from the interface.


Limits
===============

Of course there are limits with this approach. Poole goes with Markdown and YAML, thus only allows content to be authored in plaintext. In future projects like the Substance Composer, may allow us offer WYSIWYG composition as well. At the end of the day, building websites should be easier. And our mission is to make it happen.
